THE STRANGEST SECRET
Earl Nightingale
****
Published by:
Laurenzana Press at Smashwords
Copyright (c) 1994-2011 by Diana Nightingale
****
All rights reserved. Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above, no part of this
publication may be reproduced, stored in or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any
form, or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise) without the
prior written permission of both the copyright owner and the above publisher of this book.
Smashwords Edition Licence Notes
This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given
away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an
additional copy for each person you share it with. If you’re reading this book and did not purchase it,
or it was not purchased for your use only, then please return to Smashwords.com and purchase your
own copy.
****
www.LaurenzanaPress.com
****
Laurenzana Press
PO Box 1220
Melrose, FL 32666 USA
Copyright (c) 1994-2011 by Diana Nightingale
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or
by any means without the prior written permission of the Publisher.
More Earl Nightingale
Download FREE audios of classic Earl Nightingale messages, including
As A Man Thinketh and Acres of Diamonds at www.DownloadEarl.com
Table of Contents
Introduction
The Strangest Secret
The Definition of Success
Your 30-Day Experiment
Bonus Book: How to Create Million Dollar Ideas
Creative Thinking Creates Our Life
The Gold Mine Between Your Ears
Test Your C.Q.
Characteristics of Creative People
Your Most Valuable Creative Tools
The Power In Asking Questions
New Ways to Think
Creative Problem Solving
The Brainstorm
Ready for Action
The Creative Person
The Challenge of Creativity
For More Earl Nightingale
Introduction
The book you are about to read was written and recorded on a record in
1956 by Earl Nightingale. This message is the answer to the question that
he had been searching for from the time he was about nine years old.
Earl Nightingale had been born in economically depressed times. As a
child, because they were so poor, Earl desperately wanted to know why
some people grew up to enjoy prosperity while others, like his family,
struggled merely to survive.
Unable to find answers to his questions from grownups, Earl began reading
everything he could, believing that someone, somewhere, had the answer.
Many years passed, and when Earl was 35 years old, he wrote and recorded
this message. It was to be played one Saturday morning to a small group of
salesmen during his absence.
When Earl returned, he learned that the message had made such a positive
impact on the men they wanted copies to share with their friends and
family.
Earl arranged with Columbia Records to duplicate the record to meet the
many requests.
Much to Earl’s surprise, in very little time, without any real advertising or
marketing, over a million copies had been sold and he received a Gold
Record.
Earl called the message The Strangest Secret. And this single recording was
the seedling from which the entire Personal Development Industry grew.
And because Earl had discovered the true meaning of The Strangest Secret,
which determines the outcome of one’s life, he went from poverty to
become one of the most highly recognized voices and names throughout the
United States and from the West Indies to South Africa.
His daily radio program, Our Changing World, was the world’s most widely
sponsored radio program and was heard daily across the United States,
Canada, Mexico, Australia, the Bahamas, Guam, New Zealand, Puerto
Rico, the Armed Forces Radio, and 30 countries overseas.
Since my husband’s death in 1989, I have continually looked for new,
effective ways to continue to share Earl’s many messages of inspiration
with the world. This eBook is one of those ways.
The Personal Development Industry is so vast today, and yet, people around
the world attribute The Strangest Secret as being the one message that has
most positively affected their lives.
As you read, you will notice how the statistics reflect those of the mid
1950’s. But more than 50 years later, the message is as true and valuable as
it was then.
I hope you enjoy the book, but more than that, I hope you put The Strangest
Secret to work in your life.
Diana Nightingale
Back to top
The Strangest Secret
I would like to tell you about the strangest secret in the world.
Not long ago Albert Schweitzer, the great doctor and Nobel Prize winner,
was being interviewed in London and a reporter asked him, “Doctor what’s
wrong with men today?”
The great doctor was silent for a moment and then he said, “Men simply
don’t think.” And it’s about this that I want to talk with you.
We live today in a golden age. This is an era that man has looked forward
to, dreamed of and worked hard for thousands of years.
But since it’s here, we pretty well take it for granted.
We, in America, are particularly fortunate to live in the richest land that
ever existed on the face of the earth. A land of abundant opportunity for
everyone, but do you know what happens?
Let’s take a hundred men who start even at the age of 25. Do you have any
idea of what will happen to those men by the time they’re 65?
These one hundred men, who all start even at the age of 25, believe they are
going to be successful. If you ask any one of these men if he wanted to be a
success, he would tell you that he did and you would notice that he was
eager towards life, that there was a certain sparkle to his eye and erectness
to his courage and life seemed like a pretty interesting adventure to him.
But by the time they’re 65 one will be rich. Four will be financially
independent. Five will still be working, 54 will be broke.
Now think a moment, out of the one hundred, only five make the grade.
Why do so many fail? What has happened to the sparkle that was there
when they were 25? What’s become of the dreams, the hopes, the plans and
why is there such a large disparity between what these men intended to do
and what they actually accomplished?
When we say about 5% achieve success, we have to define success, and
here’s the definition. Success is the progressive realization of a worthy
ideal. If a man is working towards a predetermined goal and knows where
he is going, that man is a success. If he’s not doing that, he’s a failure.
Success is the progressive realization of a worthy ideal.
Rollo May, the distinguished psychiatrist, wrote a wonderful book called
Man’s Search for Himself, and in this book he says the opposite of courage
in our society is not cowardness, it is conformity. And there you have the
trouble today. It’s conformity. People acting like every one else without
knowing why, without knowing where they’re going.
Now think of it. In America right now there are over 40 million people 65
years of age and over and about 13 million of these 40 million are broke.
They’re dependent on someone else for life’s necessities.
Now we learn to read by the time we’re seven. We learn to make a living by
the time we’re 25. Usually by that time, we’re not only making a living,
we’re supporting a family. And yet, by the time we’re 65, we haven’t
learned how to become financially independent in the richest land that has
ever been known. Why? We conform. And the trouble is that we’re acting
like the wrong percentage group -- the 95% who don’t succeed.
Now why do these people conform? Well, they don’t know really. These
people believe that their lives are shaped by circumstances, by things that
happened to them, by exterior forces; they’re outer directed people.
A survey was made one time that covered a lot of men, working men, and
these men were asked this question. Why do you work? Why do you get up
in the morning? 19 out of 20 had no idea. If you ask them, they’ll say
everyone goes to work in the morning and that’s the reason why they do it
because everyone else is doing it.
Back to top
The Definition of Success
Now let’s get back to our definition of success. Who succeeds? The only
man who succeeds is the man who is progressively realizing a worthy ideal.
He’s the man who says, “I’m going to become this” and then begins to work
towards that goal.
I’ll tell you who the successful people are. A success is the school teacher
who is teaching school because that’s what she wanted to do. The success is
the woman who is a wife and mother because she wanted to become a wife
and mother and is doing a good job of it. The success is the man who runs
the corner gas station, because that’s what he wanted to do. The success is
the successful salesman who wants to become a top-notch salesman and
grow and build with his organization.
A success is anyone who is doing deliberately a predetermined job because
that’s what he decided to do deliberately. But only 1 out of 20 does that.
That’s why today, there isn’t really any competition, unless we make it for
ourselves. Instead of competing all we have to do is create. Now for twenty
years I looked for the key which would determine what would happen to a
human being. Was there a key, I wanted to know, which would make the
future a promise that we could foretell to a large extent? Was there a key to
a person becoming successful if he only knew about it and knew how to use
it?
Well, there is such a key and I’ve found it. Have you ever wondered why so
many men work so hard and earnestly without ever achieving anything in
particular and others don’t seem to work hard and yet seem to get
everything? They have a magic touch. You’ve heard them say that about
someone. Everything he touches turns to gold. And have you ever noticed
that a man who becomes successful tends to continue to be successful, and
on the other hand have you noticed how a man who is a failure, tends to
continue to fail. It’s because of goals. Some of us have them, some don’t.
People with goals succeed because they know where they’re going. Now
think of a ship leaving a harbor and think of it with a complete voyage
mapped out and planned. The captain and crew know exactly where it’s
going and how long it will take. It has a definite goal. Nine thousand, nine
hundred and ninety-nine times out of ten thousand it will get to where it
started out to get.
Now let’s take another ship, just like the first, only let’s not put a crew on it
or a captain of the helm. Let’s give it no aiming point. No goal, no destiny.
We just start the engine and let it go. I think you’ll agree with me that if it
gets out of the harbor at all, it will either sink or wind up on some deserted
beach, a derelict. It can’t go any place because it has no destination, no
guidance.
It’s the same with a human being. Take the salesman for example. There is
no other person in the world today with the future of a good salesman.
Selling is the world’s highest paid profession, if we’re good at it and if we
know where we’re going. Every company needs top notched salesmen and
they reward those men. The sky is the limit for them, but how many can
you find.
Someone once said the human race is fixed, not to prevent the strong from
winning but to prevent the weak from losing. The American economy today
can be likened to a convoy in time of war. The entire economy is slowed
down to protect its weakest link, just as the convoy had to go at the speed
that would permit its slowest vessel to remain in formation.
That’s why it’s so easy to make a living today. It takes no particular brains
or talent to make a living and support a family today. So we have a plateau
of so called security, if that’s what a person is looking for. But we do have
to decide how high above this plateau we want to aim for.
Now let’s get back to the strangest secret in the world -- the story that I
wanted to tell you today. Why do men with goals succeed in life and men
without them fail. Well let me tell you something, which if you really
understand it, will alter your life immediately.
If you understand completely what I’m going to tell you from this moment
on, your life will never be the same again. You will suddenly find that good
luck just seems to be attracted to you. The things you want just seem to fall
in line and from now on you won’t have the problems, the worries, the
knowing lump of anxiety that, perhaps, you have experienced before.
Doubt, fear, well they’ll be things of the past.
Here’s the key to success and the key to failure: We become what we think
about. Now let me say that again. We become what we think about.
Throughout all history, the great wise men and teachers, philosophers and
prophets have agreed with one another on many different things. It is only
on this one point that they are in complete and unanimous agreement.
Listen to what Marcus Aurelius, the great Roman Emperor said. He said, “a
man’s life is what his thoughts make of it.” Disraeli said this, “everything
comes if a man would only wait. I have brought myself, by long meditation,
to the conviction that a human being with a settled purpose, must
accomplish it and that nothing can resist a will that will stake even
existence for its fulfillment”.
Ralph Waldo Emerson said this, “a man is what he thinks about all day
long.” William James said, “the greatest discovery of my generation is that
human beings can alter their lives by altering their attitudes of mind.” And
he also said, “we need only in cold blood act as if the thing in question was
real and it will become infallibly real by growing into such a connection
with our life that it will become real. It will become so knit with habit and
emotion, that our interest in it will be those which characterize belief.”
He also said this, “if you only care enough for a result, you will almost
certainly ascertain it. If you wish to be rich, you will be rich. If you wish to
be learned, you will be learned. If you wish to be good, you will good. Only
you must then really wish these things and wish them exclusively and not
wish at the same time a hundred other compatible things just as strongly.”
In the bible you read, in Mark 9:23, “if thou canst believe, all things are
possible to him that believeth.” Dr. Norman Vincent Peale said, “this is one
of the greatest laws in the universe. Fervently do I wish I had discovered it
as a very young man. It dawned upon me much later in life and I found it to
be one of the greatest, if not my greatest discovery, outside of my
relationship to God. And the great law briefly and simply stated is that if
you think in negative terms, you’ll get negative results. If you’ll think in
positive terms, you will achieve positive results. That is the simple fact
which is at the basis of an astonishing law of prosperity and success. In
three words, ‘believe and succeed’.”
William Shakespeare put it this way: “our doubts are traitors and make us
lose the good we oft might win by fearing to attempt.” George Bernerd
Shaw said, “People are always blaming their circumstances for what they
are. I don’t believe in circumstances. The people who get on in this world
are the people who get up and look for the circumstances they want and if
they can’t find them, make them.”
Well, it’s pretty apparent, isn’t it? And every person who discovered this for
a while believed that he was the first one to work it out. We become what
we think about.
Now it stands to reason that a person who is thinking about a concrete and
worthwhile goal is going to reach it because that’s what he is thinking about
and we become what we think about.
Conversely, the man who has no goal, who doesn’t know where he is going
and whose thoughts must therefore be thoughts of confusion and anxiety
and fear and worry, becomes what he thinks about. His life becomes one of
frustration, fear, anxiety and worry and if he thinks about nothing, he
becomes nothing.
Now how does it work? Why do we become what we think about? Well I’ll
tell you how it works as far as we know. Now, to do this, I want to tell you
about a situation that parallels the human mind.
Suppose a farmer had some land and it’s good, fertile land. Now the land
gives the farmer a choice. He may plant in that land whatever he chooses,
the land doesn’t care. It’s up to the farmer to make the decision. Now
remember, we’re comparing the human mind with the land. Because the
mind, like the land, doesn’t care what you plant in it. It will return what you
plant, but it doesn’t care what you plant.
Now let’s say that the farmer has two seeds in his hand. One is a seed of
corn, the other is night shade, a deadly poison. He digs two little holes in
the earth and he plants both seeds; one corn, the other night shade. He
covers up the holes, waters and takes care of the land and what will happen?
Invariably, the land will return what is planted. As it is written in the Bible,
“as you sow, so shall you reap.” Remember the land doesn’t care. It will
return poison in just as wonderful abundance as it will corn. So up comes
the two plants: one corn, one poison.
Now the human mind is far more fertile, far more incredible and mysterious
than the land, but it works the same way. It doesn’t care what we plant.
Success? Failure? A concrete worthwhile goal or confusion,
misunderstanding, fear, anxiety and so on. But what we plant it will return
to us.
You see, the human mind is the last great unexplored continent on the earth.
It contains riches beyond our wildest dreams. It will return anything we
want to plant.
Now, you might say, “but if that’s true, why don’t people use their minds
more?” Well I think they’ve figured out an answer to that too. Our mind
comes as standard equipment at birth. It’s free and things that are given to
us for nothing, we place little value on. Things that we pay money for, we
value.
The paradox is that exactly the reverse is true. Everything that’s really
worthwhile in life came to us free: our mind, our soul, our body, our hopes,
our dreams, our ambitions, our intelligence, our love of family and children
and friends. All these priceless possessions are free, but the things that cost
us money are actually very cheap and can be replaced at any time.
A good man can be completely wiped out and make another fortune. He can
do that several times. Even if our home burns down we can rebuild it. But
the things that we got for nothing, we can never replace. The human mind
isn’t used merely because we take it for granted. Familiarity breeds
contempt. It can do any kind of job we assign to it, but generally speaking,
we use it for little jobs instead of big, important ones. Universities have
proved that most of us are operating on about 10% of our abilities.
Decide now, what is it you want? Plant your goal in your mind. It’s the most
important decision you’ll ever make in your entire life. Do you want to be
an outstanding salesman, a better worker at your particular job? Do you
want to go places in your company, in your community? All you’ve got to
do is plant that seed in your mind. Care for it. Work steadily towards your
goal and it will become a reality. It not only will, there’s no way that it
cannot.
You see, that is a law, like the laws of Sir Isaac Newton, the laws of gravity.
If you get on top of a building and jump off you’ll always go down, you’ll
never go up. And it’s the same with all of the other laws of nature -- they
always work, they’re inflexible.
Think about your goal in a relaxed positive way. Picture yourself in your
mind’s eye as having already achieved this goal. See yourself doing the
things that you will be doing when you’ve reached your goal.
Ours has been called the Phenobarbital Age, the age of ulcers and nervous
breakdowns. At a time when medical research has raised us to a new
plateau of good health and longevity, far too many of us worry ourselves
into an early grave trying to cope with things in our own little, personal
ways without learning a few great laws that will take care of everything for
us. These things we bring on ourselves by our habitual way of thinking.
Every one of us is the sum total of his own thoughts. He is where he is
because that is exactly where he really wants to be, whether he’ll admit that
or not. Each of us must live off the fruits of his thoughts in the future
because what you think today and tomorrow, next month or next year, will
mold your life and determine your future. You’re guided by your mind.
I remember one time I was driving through Arizona and I saw one of those
giant earth moving machines roaring along the road at about 35 mph with
what looked like 20 tons of dirt in it. A tremendous incredible machine, and
there was a little man perched way up on top with the wheel in his hands,
guiding it. And as I drove along I was struck by the similarity of that
machine to the human mind. Just suppose you’re sitting at the controls of
such a vast source of energy. Are you going to sit back and fold your arms
and let it run itself into a ditch, or are you going to keep both hands firmly
on the wheel and control and direct this power to a specific, worthwhile
purpose. It’s up to you. You’re in the driver’s seat.
You see, the very law that gives us success is a two-edged sword. We must
control our thinking. The same rule that can lead a man to a life of success,
wealth, happiness and all the things that he has ever dreamed of for himself
and for his family, that very same law can lead him into the gutter. It’s all in
how he uses it, for good or for bad. This is the strangest secret in the world.
Now why do I say it’s strange and why do I call it a secret? Actually it isn’t
a secret at all. It was first promulgated by some of the earliest wise men and
it appears again and again throughout the Bible. But very few people, who
have learned it understand it. That’s why it’s strange and why, for some
equally strange reason, it virtually remains a secret. I believe that you could
go out and walk down the main street of your town and ask one man after
another what the secret of success is, and you probably wouldn’t run into
one man in a month who could tell you.
Now this information is enormously valuable to us if we really understand
it and apply it. It’s valuable to us not only for our own lives but the lives of
those around us -- our family, employees, associates and friends.
Life should be an exciting adventure. It should never be a bore. A man
should live fully, be alive. He should be glad to get out of bed in the
morning. He should be doing a job that he likes to do because he does it
well.
One time I heard Grove Patterson make a speech, the editor and chief of the
Toledo Daily Blade, and as he concluded his speech he said something that
I’ve never forgotten. He said something like this, “my years in the
newspaper business has convinced me of several things. Among them, that
people are basically good and that we came from someplace and we’re
going someplace.” So we should make our time here an exciting adventure.
The architect of the universe didn’t build a stairway leading nowhere. And
the greatest teacher of all, the carpenter from the plains of Galilee, gave us
the secret time and time again, “as you believe so shall it be done unto
you.”
Back to top
Your 30-Day Experiment
I’ve explained the strangest secret in the world and how it works. Now I
want to explain how you can prove to yourself the enormous returns
possible in your own life by putting this secret to a practical test. I want you
to make a test that will last 30 days. Now it isn’t going to be easy. If you’ll
give it a good try, it will completely change your life for the better.
Back in the 17th century, Sir Isaac Newton, the English mathematician and
natural philosopher, gave us some natural laws of physics which apply as
much to human beings as they do to the movement of bodies in the
universe. Now one of these laws is that “for every action there is an equal
and opposite reaction.” Simply stated as it applies to you and me, it means
we can achieve nothing without paying the price.
The results of your 30-day experiment will be in direct proportion to the
effort you put forth. To be a doctor you must pay the price of long years of
difficult study. To be successful in selling -- and remember that each of us
succeeds to the extent of his ability to sale -- selling our families on our
ideas, selling education in schools, selling our children on the advantages of
living the good and honest life, selling our associates and employees on the
importance of being exceptional people, to, of course, to the profession of
selling itself.
But to be successful in selling our way to the good life, we must be willing
to pay the price. Now what is that price? Well, it’s many things. First, it’s
understanding emotionally, as well as intelligently, that we literally become
what we think about -- that we must control our thoughts if we are to
control our lives. It’s understanding fully that as you sow, so shall you reap.
Secondly, it’s cutting away all the fetters from the mind and permitting it to
soar as it was divinely designed to do. It’s the realization that your
limitations are self-imposed and that the opportunities for you today are
enormous beyond belief. It’s rising above narrow-minded pettiness and
prejudice.
Thirdly, to use all your courage to force yourself to think positively on your
own problem:
• to set a definite and clearly defined goal for yourself,
• to let your marvelous mind think about your goals from all possible
angles,
• to let your imagination speculate freely upon many different possible
solutions,
• to refuse to believe there are any circumstances sufficiently strong to
defeat you in the accomplishment of your purpose,
• to act promptly and decisively when your course is clear and to keep
constantly aware of the fact that you are, at this moment, standing in the
middle of your own acre of diamonds, as Russell Cromwell used to point
out.
Fourth, save at least 10 percent of what you earn.
It’s also remembering that, no matter what your present job, it has
enormous possibilities if you’re willing to pay the price.
Now let’s just go over the important points in the price teach of us must pay
to achieve the wonderful that can be ours. It is, of course, worth any price.
One, you will become what you think about.
Two, remember the word imagination. Let your mind soar.
Three, courage -- concentrate on your goal everyday.
Four, save 10 percent of what you earn, and ACTION! Ideas are worthless
unless we act on them.
Now I’ll try to outline the 30-day test I want you to make. Keep in mind
that you have nothing to lose by making this test and everything that you
could possibly want, to gain.
There are two things that may be said of everyone: each of us wants
something and each of us is afraid of something. I want you to write on a
card what it is you want more than anything else. It may be more money.
Perhaps you would like to double your income or make a specific amount
of money. It may be a beautiful home. It may be success at your job. It may
be a particular position in life. It could be a more harmonious family. Each
of us want something.
Write down on your card, specifically, what it is that you want. Make sure it
is a single goal and clearly defined. You need not show it to anyone, but
carry it with you so that you can look at it several times a day.
Think about it in a cheerful, relaxed, positive way each morning when you
get up and immediately you have something to work for, something to get
out of bed for, something to live for. Look at it every chance you get during
the day and just before going to bed at night. As you look at it, remember
you must become what you think about and since you’re thinking about
your goal, you realize that soon it will be yours. In fact, it’s yours, really,
the moment you write it down and begin to think about it.
Look at the abundance all around you as you go about your daily business.
You have as much right to this abundance as any other living creature. It’s
yours for the asking.
Now we come to the difficult part. Difficult, because it means the formation
of what is probably a brand new habit and new habits are not easily formed.
Once formed however, it will follow you for the rest of your life.
Stop thinking about what it is you fear. Each time a fearful or negative
thought comes into your consciousness, replace it with a mental picture of
your positive and worthwhile goal. There will come times when you will
feel like giving up. It’s easier for a human being to think negatively than
positively, that’s why only 5 percent are successful. You must begin now to
place yourself in that group.
For 30 days you must take control of your mind. It will think only about
what you permit it to think. Each day, for this 30 day test, do more than you
have to do. In addition to maintaining a cheerful positive outlook, give of
yourself more than you’ve ever done before. Do this knowing that your
returns in life must be in direct proportion to what you give.
The moment you decide on a goal to work towards you are immediately a
successful person. You are then in that rare and successful category of
people who know where they’re going. Out of every 100 people, you
belong to the top five.
Don’t concern yourself too much with how you’re going to achieve your
goal. Leave that completely to a power greater than yourself. All you have
to do is know WHERE you’re going. The answers will come to you of their
own accord. Remember these words from the Sermon on the Mount and
remember them well. Keep them constantly before you this month of your
test. “Ask and it shall be given you, seek and ye shall find, knock and it
shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh, receiveth, and he that
seeketh, findeth, and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened.” It’s as
marvelous and simple as that.
In fact, it’s so simple, that in our similarly complicated world, it’s difficult
for an adult to understand that all he needs is a purpose and faith. For 30
days, do your best. If you’re a salesman go at it as you’ve never done
before, not in hectic fashion but with a calm cheerful assurance that time
well spent will give you the abundance in return that you deserve and want.
If you’re a homemaker, devote your 30-day test to complete giving of
yourself, without thinking about receiving anything in return, and you’ll be
amazed at the difference it makes in your life.
No matter what your job, do it as you’ve never done it before for 30 days
and, if you’ve kept your goal before you everyday, you will wonder and
marvel at this new life that you’ve found.
Dorothea Brande, outstanding editor and writer, discovered it for herself
and tells about it in her fine book, Wake up and Live. Her entire philosophy
is reduced to the words “act as though it were impossible to fail.” She made
her own test with sincerity and faith and her entire life was changed to one
of overwhelming success.
Now you make your test for 30 full days. Don’t start your test until you’ve
made up your mind to stick with it. You see, by being persistent you’re
demonstrating faith. Persistence is simply another word for faith. If you
didn’t have faith, you would never persist. If you should fail during your
first 30 days, by that I mean suddenly finding yourself overwhelmed by
negative thoughts, you’ve got to start over again from that point and go 30
more days. Gradually your new habit will form, until you find yourself one
of that wonderful minority to whom virtually nothing is impossible.
Don’t forget the card. It is vitally important as you begin this new way of
living. On one side of the card write your goal, whatever it might be. On the
other side, write the words we’ve quoted from the Sermon on the Mount,
“ask and it shall be giveth, seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be
opened unto you.”
In your spare time during your test period read books that will help you.
Inspirational books like the Bible, Dorothea Brande’s Wake up and Live,
The Magic of Believing by Claud Bristol, Think and Grow Rich by
Napoleon Hill and other books that instruct and inspire. Nothing great was
ever accomplished without inspiration.
See that during these crucial first 30 days your own inspiration is kept at a
peak. Above all, don’t worry. Worry brings fear and fear is crippling. The
only thing that can cause you to worry during your test is trying to do it all
yourself. Know that all you have to do is hold your goal before you.
Everything else will take care of itself.
Remember also to keep calm and cheerful -- calm and cheerful. Don’t let
petty things annoy you and get you off course. Now, since making this test
is difficult, some may say why should I bother? Well, look at the
alternative. No one wants to be a failure. No one really wants to be a
mediocre individual. No one wants a life constantly filled with worry, fear
and frustration. Therefore, remember that you must reap that which you
sow. If you sow negative thoughts your life will be filled with negative
things. If you sow positive thoughts, your life will be cheerful, successful
and positive.
Now gradually, you have a tendency to forget what you’ve read in this
book. Read it often. Keep reminding yourself of what you must do to form
this new habit. Gather your whole family about and talk about what has
been written here at regular intervals.
You know, most men will tell you that they want to make money without
understanding the law. The only people who make money work in the mint.
The rest of us must earn money. This is what causes those who keep
looking for something for nothing or a free ride to fail in life. The only way
to earn money is by providing people with services or products which are
needed and useful. We exchange our product or services for the other man’s
money. Therefore, the law is that our financial return will be in direct
proposition to our service.
Success is not the result of making money. Making money is the result of
success and success is in direct proposition to our service. Most people have
this law backwards. They believe that you’re successful if you earn a lot of
money. The truth is, that you can only earn money after you’re successful.
It’s like the story of the man who sat in front of a stove and said to it, “give
me heat and then I’ll add the wood.” How many men and women do you
know, or do you suppose are out there today, who take the same attitude
towards life. There are millions.
We’ve got to put the fuel in before we can expect heat. Likewise, we’ve got
to be of service first before we can expect money. Don’t concern yourself
with the money. Be of service. Build. Work. Dream. Create. Do this and
you’ll find that there is no limit to the prosperity and abundance that will
come to you.
Prosperity is founded upon a law of mutual exchange. Any person who
contributes to prosperity must prosper, in turn, himself. Sometimes the
return will not come from those you serve, but it must come to you from
someplace, for that is the law.
For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction. As you go daily
through your 30-day test period, remember, that your success will always be
measured by the quality and quantity of service you render and money is a
yardstick for measuring this service. No man can get rich himself unless he
enriches others.
There are no exceptions to a law. You can drive down any street in America
and, from your car, estimate the service that is being rendered by the people
living on that street. Have you ever thought of this yardstick before? It’s
interesting. Some, like ministers and priests and other devoted people,
measure their returns in the realm of the spiritual, but again, their returns
are equal to their service.
Once this law is fully understood, any thinking person can tell his own
fortune. If he wants more, he must be of more service to those from whom
he receives his return. If he wants less, he has only to reduce his service.
This is the price you must pay for what you want.
If you believe you can enrich yourself by diluting others, you can only end
by diluting yourself. Just as surely as you breath, you’ll get back what you
put out. Don’t ever make the mistake of thinking you can avert this. It’s
impossible. The prisons and streets where the lonely walk are full of people
who tried to make new laws just for themselves. We may avoid the laws of
man, but there are greater laws that cannot be broken.
An outstanding medical doctor recently pointed out six steps that will help
you realize success:
1) Set yourself a definite goal.
2) Quit running yourself down.
3) Stop thinking of all the reasons why you can’t be successful and instead,
think of all the reasons why you can.
4) Trace your attitudes back to your childhood and try to discover where
you first got the idea you couldn’t be a success, if that’s the way you’ve
been thinking.
5) Change the image you have of yourself by writing out a description of
the person you would like to be.
6) Act the part of the successful person you have decided to become.
The doctor who wrote those words is a noted West Coast psychiatrist,
David Harold Fink, M.D.
Do what all the experts since the dawn of recorded history have told you
you must do -- pay the price by becoming the person you want to become.
It’s not nearly as difficult as living unsuccessfully.
Make your 30-day test, then repeat it, then repeat it again. Each time it will
become more a part of you until you wonder how you could ever have lived
any other way.
Live this new way and the flood gates of abundance will open and pour
over you more riches than you may have dreamed existed. Money, yes, lots
of it, but what’s more important you’ll have peace. You’ll be in that
wonderful minority who lead calm, cheerful successful lives. Start today.
You have nothing to lose. But you have a life to win.
Back to top
###
More of Earl Nightingale
Get a FREE audio of the original recording of Earl’s famous The
Strangest Secret at www.DownloadEarl.com
Bonus Book
HOW TO CREATE MILLION DOLLAR IDEAS
By Earl Nightingale
Creative Thinking Creates Our Life
There are two ways in which we are paid for what we do. One is tangible,
in the form of money, and the other is intangible, but just as important. To
many, it’s more important.
This latter form of payment comes in the form of inner-satisfaction, in the
form of joy as the result of accomplishment. It also comes in the form of
satisfaction in position and the standing it gives us.
So each of us is paid in these two ways, money and satisfaction, and there’s
a very simple way to increase both of these forms of income.
You may wonder how I can say that I can tell you of a simple way to
increase your income, from the standpoint of money as well as innersatisfaction. Yet, I can and you’ll be able to see and spend the results.
First, I want you to understand and believe completely the great law which
lies as the foundation of all life, business and personal. It is “our rewards in
life will be in exact proportion to our service.”
The more you think about this and observe people and businesses in their
true light, the more you’ll see the undeniable truth of it.
Now, try as best you can to estimate the proportion of your total ability you
have been giving to your work. I don’t think anyone gives 100%. I don’t
think it’s possible to give 100% day in and day out, I know I don’t. But,
estimate what you consider to be the percentage of 100% you have been
giving to your work.
Would you say it’s been 30%? 50%? Anyway, try to decide.
Now, since your rewards will be in exact proportion to your service, you
can increase your income, both financially and from an inner-satisfaction
standpoint, simply by narrowing the distance between what you have been
giving to your work, and the 100% of what you maybe said you could give
under ideal conditions.
You don’t have to ask for a raise. The income will appear of its own accord
and in the right time. You may want to question this, but try to take my
word for it.
Now, the second point I want to make is this. If you will begin to do your
work better, better than you’ve ever done before, you will immediately
begin to receive incalculably more inner-satisfaction.
You’ll also find that what may have been a boring or uninteresting job will
take on new meaning and interest.
No matter what it is you do during the working day, try, in every case, to do
a little more than you have to, more than you’re being paid for, because,
unless you do more than you’re being paid for now, you can’t hope for or
justify an increase in pay.
And the third point I want to make is this. Each of us is interdependent.
Other people pay our salaries, buy our homes, cloth, feed and educate our
children; therefore, we depend upon others for our very lives, just as they
must depend upon us.
If we expect others to give us excellent service and fine products for the
money we spend, doesn’t it make good sense that we should treat them the
same way?
Every hour spent at our work should be spent in the attempt to give the best
of which we are capable; a baker’s dozen for the money our company’s
customers spend for our products and services, and with which our salaries
are paid.
A person who tries to get the maximum return for the minimum of effort is
only kidding himself. Sooner or later the scales will balance. They must, for
that is the law, whether we like it or not.
This kind of individual actually shrinks as a person, as a human being and
he has no real place in a dynamic and swiftly changing world.
The fourth point is to try each day to find some way in which the work
you’re doing can be improved. Here again, you’re guaranteeing an increase
in your income in both categories.
We all know the cynical type of individual who will laugh at this. I know
them, you know them. But I don’t know one who could be said to be doing
well, do you?
I know lots of men and women who are at the top of their fields, who live
their lives every day in the way I have suggested.
Rather than go along with someone who’s never proved in his own life that
he knows what he’s talking about, I’d prefer to believe the one who said “as
ye sow, so shall you reap.” I feel, as I’m sure you do, that he was more
qualified to speak than the know-it-all who’s behind in his installment
payments.
Anyway, it’s worth a test. If you will follow my suggestions for the next
year, you’ll be a different person, living a rich, rewarding and meaningful
life.
Four things, all of them simple:
1) Remember that our rewards in life will be in exact proportion to our
service.
2) By giving your work a larger percentage of your capabilities and talents,
you will, you must, increase your income substantially.
3) Since our lives depend on others, treat others in every facet of your life
exactly as you want others to treat you. If you expect others to give you
excellent products and services for the money you and your family spend,
then you should make certain that your job is handled as excellently as it is
possible for you, since it is the money of others which pays your salary.
4) Try to find some way, every day, in which your work can be improved.
And above all, know your boss, he’s the customer. Treat him with the
respect, care, courtesy and good humor he deserves. Remember, he pays all
of your bills every month. He will buy everything you will ever own. He
may be coarse, crude, ignorant, selfish, conniving and a thorough going
savage, he often will be.
Here, it is more important than ever that you treat him with all the care and
attention you can muster. If you don’t, and if you permit his attitude to
affect yours, you’re admitting that he’s the stronger person.
If you respond the way he conducts himself, you’re admitting you are no
better than he is.
But most people are nice people. They’re people like you and me who want
to be liked, who want to get along, who want to be friends. They have
problems and sorrows of their own, about which we’re not aware, and they
have bad days and disappointments.
Make sure that the time there with you is a high spot in their day and that
they’ll want to come back, not just because of your company but because of
you.
If you will do these things for a year, you’ll be surprised and delighted and
you’ll find you wouldn’t live any other way for the world. If you’re already
living this way, you know what I mean.
Back to top
The Gold Mine Between Your Ears
Have you ever given much thought to the value of ideas? From less than
worthless, they run the gamut all the way into the hundreds of billions of
dollars, from the wheel to the zipper, fire to the home permanent, the bow
and arrow to the H-Bomb, electricity to the Iron Engine, each has been
drawn from that bottomless, richest of all minds, the brain of man.
Everything you and I will ever have will come to us as the result of the way
we use our minds, the one thing we possess that makes us different from all
other creatures.
And the highest function of which our minds are capable is to think
creatively. This is the kind of thinking that puts a fresh, new face on the
world and all of our progress has come, now comes, and will always come
as a result of creative thinking, from using our brains creatively.
But what is a brain? Well, it’s a priceless resource that is given free to each
human being at birth. It’s as though the Creator said, “Here you are. You
now have a copy of the creative agent that produced the plays of
Shakespeare, bridged San Francisco Bay, and harnessed the energy and fire
of the sun. I put it into your keeping for the span of your life. Do with it
what you will.”
A British neurophysicist has said that if we would have tried to approximate
electronically an average human brain, it would cost three billion, billion
dollars; that’s the number 3 followed by 18 ciphers and you and I each own
one.
Yes, you have a goldmine between your ears, your mind, your imagination.
But, for most of us owning this great of all earthly possession is like owning
some great complex Chinese puzzle containing, at its heart, a jewel of great
value.
We have to find a secret key that will enable us to unlock the puzzle’s
treasure. Do you realize that nothing has yet been done perfectly?
Everything in the world remains to be done or done over.
A major magazine recently reported that one out of every four products
advertised in a particular issue was little more than an idea or a project in
experimental laboratories ten years ago.
Today, more money is spent for research and development in a single year
than was spent during the first 150 years of our nation’s history. No one
product has ever been manufactured, distributed, advertised, or sold
efficiently as it might be and someday will be.
There isn’t, in all the world, a perfectly managed business, organization,
institution, or government. The greatest picture hasn’t yet been painted.
They ideal labor contract is yet unwritten. The best way to train salesmen,
an easy way to stay slim, something to prevent baldness, a better mousetrap,
all of these problems are still unsolved.
Physics, mathematics, and chemistry are still being revised. Psychology,
sociology, and economics await another Darwin. Nothing is known
completely and positively. Nothing has been done finally and right.
Everything changes.
So, the world waits and then moves forward in surges as here a man and
there a woman makes a fresh and daring discovery or proposes some bold
new ideas.
And, most of these contributions to social and scientific progress come
from creative individuals who have the courage and strength who challenge
and break the bonds of conventional routine average thinking.
Yes, in this swift moving world, there’s tremendous opportunity for the men
and women who use more of their total brain power. So, use your mind to
think about the things which need to be done or done over, starting right
where you are today.
Your brain is always ready for instant use. It thrives on exercise. How about
giving it some right now? The best way to exercise your brain is to ask
yourself questions. So, try these.
1) How can I improve myself so that I can become a better person?
2) How can I get along better with my customers, colleagues, friends,
family?
3) What can I do to increase my value and advance faster in my
organization?
4) How can I come up with new ideas for advancing my profession or
improving the business I’m in?
Think about how you can create something in your work, in your life.
Remember, nothing is done. Nothing is final and complete. You’ve done
important and significant things in the past and you can do more if you will
use more of your full brainpower now and in the years ahead.
Back to top
Test Your C.Q.
It’s been established that creative people are intelligent. But, conversely,
intelligent people are not always creative. If you’re typical you’re only
using about a fraction of your creative power. The objective is to increase
your ability to use it. You’re probably far more creative than you think.
Like most of us, you’ve perhaps had, at one time or another, a test to
determine your IQ, your intelligence quotient. But, I doubt whether you’ve
ever had a test to determine your creativity quotient, your CQ. Please get a
piece of paper and a pencil. In fact, I recommend you always have paper
and pencil ready. You’ll find they’re aids to creative thinking.
Please answer each of these 16 questions with yes or no, whichever
honestly describes you best.
1) Do you seek out and jot down ides while listening to a speaker, chatting
with someone, traveling, or just waiting in a reception room?
2) Do you take prompt and positive action on your better ideas? Do you do
something with them?
3) Do you make it a daily habit to really use your eyes? Do you look at
things carefully, thoughtfully? Do you absorb while you observe?
4) Do you ever ask yourself questions like these? How can I improve
myself? How can I be more effective in my work? How can I help make my
community a better place in which to live?
5) Have you ever written down your specific personal and business goals?
6) Do you spend some time each day purposefully reading or listening to
others?
7) Do you make a steady effort to widen your interests and friendships? For
example, do you read books and magazines outside of your field? Do you
make new friends by taking an active role in church and civic groups?
8) Do you welcome ideas from everywhere? That is, do you encourage
family, friends, colleagues, and neighbors to share their thoughts with you?
9) Do you always try to understand something fully before you pass
judgment?
10) Do you find yourself destructively discontented with the things around
you? For example, do you often say to yourself there must be a better way
to do this? Or, how can I improve this?
11) Do you pick a time and place to think each day? No one has more time
than you have. Each person is given 24 hours a day. Do you use any of this
time for creative thinking or for just plain thinking?
12) Do you ever give away your ideas, ideas you believe might help
someone?
13) Do you ever combine ideas or build big ideas from little ones? Do you
ever adapt or associate ideas or modify, rearrange, or reverse the ideas you
have?
14) Do you keep yourself in good mental and physical health, keep a bright
outlook, and keep fit?
15) Do you consciously ask questions that require an explanatory answer
rather than a simple yes or no? For example, do you try to ask questions
which begin with these conversation starters who, what, when, where, why,
which, how, and if?
16) What about your overall attitude toward life? Do you expect the best
and do you constantly search for it?
All right, that completes the test. Now, please add up all your yes answers.
If you have between 11 and 16 yes answers, you have a positive attitude
and many of the tools for creative thinking. You are well on your way to a
high CQ.
If you have between six and ten yes answers, you’ve started up the creative
thinking road but you still have a ways to go.
I hope you did well on the test. If you didn’t, don’t worry. Your creative
potential can be increased quickly and effectively by studying the principals
you’ll learn in this book and by conscientiously practicing the techniques of
creative thinking.
Back to top
Characteristics of Creative People
Our studies show that certain characteristics are almost always present in
the creative individual. And, what are these characteristics? Well, here’s a
list of 25 of them.
And no one man or woman has all of the traits here. But the really creative
people, the Socrates, da Vincis, Shakespeares, Edisons, Einsteins,
Schweitzers, and all the others who led us to where we are today, have had
most of the following characteristics. So check yourself.
1) Drive, the desire to work hard and long.
2) Courage, tenacity of purpose, the mental and moral strength to venture
and persevere.
3) Goals, knowing what they wanted and going after it.
4) Knowledge, a thirst for knowledge, they knew their fields. They
constantly boned up on them.
5) Good health, they kept physically and mentally fit. They exercised their
bodies and, of course, their minds.
6) Honesty, they were frank, forthright, honorable. They had integrity and
they were, above all, intellectually honest.
7) Optimism, the great creative people were usually optimistic and positive.
They believed in people and they were cheerfully reasonable trying hard to
be part of the solution to a problem, not part of the problem.
8) And judgment, they exercised judgment. They searched for facts,
evaluated them, tried always to understand first, then judge.
9) Enthusiasm, they were enthusiastic, they were vital, they had a zest for
life. They lived life fully.
10) They were chance takers. They didn’t fear failure. They knew failure is
often a stepping stone to success.
11) They were dynamic. They were energetic, always on the move.
12) Enterprising, they courageously took on jobs others didn’t want or
couldn’t do. They were never afraid to try the unknown. They were
opportunity seekers.
13) They were persuasive. They knew how to sell. They knew what
motivates people. They inspired action and backed it up with reason and
sound arguments.
14) They were outgoing. They made friends easily and they were easy on
their friends. They encouraged people and ideas to grow in their presence.
15) They were good communicators. They had verbal skill and competence.
They spoke fluently and interestingly.
16) They were perceptive. Their gateways to the mind were always wide
open. Their senses were highly tuned to life around them. They were quick,
acute, and sensitive. Their mental radar was always on.
17) They were both patient and impatient. Patient with others most of the
time but always impatient with themselves believing they could and should
be doing more and doing it better.
18) And, adaptable, they were resilient not ridged in their thinking. They
were intelligent and flexible, adjusting quickly to changing situations.
19) They were perfectionists, always striving for the highest possible degree
of excellence. They would not settle for mediocrity, particularly in
themselves. They tried to be tolerant with others but others knew they
insisted upon excellence.
20) They had a sense of humor. They saw the lighter side of life. They
laughed easily, enjoyed a good story, often at their own expense.
21) They were versatile. They were able to do many things and do them
well.
22) They were curious, inquisitive, always asking why. They knew that
questions are the creative act of intelligence.
23) Individualistic, they were purposely independent. They did things the
way they believe they should be done.
24) They were both realists and idealists occupied by reality and guided by
ideals.
25) And, of course they were imaginative. They knew how to imagineer.
They knew how to think in new combinations. They were able to conceive
new relationships because of their curiosity and their habit of thinking
outside the boundaries of conformity. They thought imaginatively. They
judged wisely. And, they got their best ideas into action.
Well, those are 25 of the characteristics found in the most creative people.
And again, let me stress that few creative people have all of these traits. Yet,
every creative person seems to have many of them in varying degrees.
Each of these characteristics, one at a time, can be fashioned into a solid
habit. And, together, they can become a living philosophy, a creative way of
life.
You already have many of these traits. My objective here is to encourage
you to bring them out, spotlight them, polish them, hone them, and use
them in your daily life.
And here’s how you’re going to start making these creative characteristics a
part of your life right now. Take 25 white index cards and write each of the
characteristics on a card, a different one on each card. Spread the cards in
front of you, study each one, and think negatively. That’s right, think
negatively.
Take the card which lists your weakest creative characteristic and put it
aside. Take another card listing your next weakest trait and so on until
you’ve got a stack of 25 cards weakest traits on top, strongest on the
bottom.
Start today and work on weak trait number one. Work on it diligently for
one week. Make it a part of your life. Next week, start on weak trait number
two. Keep going. Work on all 25 characteristics one at a time. Soon, all 25
will be a living part of you. You’ll have studied, worked on, and put into
action 25 different creative characteristics.
If you do this faithfully, you’ll be a far more creative person. You’ll be
more interesting, more valuable, and perhaps more uncomfortable. That is,
you’ll start to realize the scope, the depth, and breadth of your creative
power.
You’ll see new horizons, new ways to solve problems, new ways to create,
build, invent, and improve. Even more important, you’ll begin to work and
live closer to the highest level of your mind power to realize fulfillment of
your own potential.
Back to top
Your Most Valuable Creative Tools
Not long ago, I had someone say if only each of us had one of those new
high-speed computers hooked up in his head, he’d be much better off. Well,
whoever made that statement, either knew very little about computers, or,
didn’t realize what kind of potential he already has between his ears.
We’re really much better off just the way we are right now. The human
brain is probably the only thing in existence that can’t be improved upon
except, perhaps, by the slow passage of centuries.
The computer has been called a high-speed moron. That is to say that,
although the modern computer is among the most sophisticated electronic
systems yet devised, it’s still severely limited in its abilities and it falls far
short of the human brain.
We have enormous mental powers and the intelligence to explore and
utilize them. The computer can only carry out orders which are fed into it. It
can only be fed mathematical calculations and make mechanical
comparisons. It can’t make valued judgments.
True, computers whiz through reams of problems almost instantaneously
saving us days even months of laborious figuring. Yet, the computer is only
as good as the person who’s programming it.
Experts tell us that the brain can capture, store, recall and program more
than 600 bits of information per second. In the course of a lifetime, this is
an enormous total, billions and billions of facts and impressions. On the
other hand, our latest computers can handle only a few million characters in
their memory banks.
A comparison between us and those electronic marvels finally boils down
to this. We can think, the machines cannot. And that’s a really significant
difference.
Now, let’s take a careful look at the brain. It has four basic powers.
One: The power to absorb, the ability to take in information, knowledge.
We do this by looking, listening, touching, tasting, and smelling, by using
all five of our senses and keeping the gateways of our mind always open.
Number Two: The power of retention, the capacity to retain knowledge and
recall it. Our brains are like endless rows of filing cabinets with relatively
few packed file drawers full of all sorts of information. There’s always
much room for more.
Three: The power of judgment and logical thought. The more facts we feed
our brain, the more able it is to reason and judge intelligently.
And Four: The power of imagination, the ability to think creatively.
With the first two powers, absorption and retention, we gather the raw
material with which to think. And, with the attitude, judgment, and
imagination we evaluate old ideas and create new ones.
Put another way, we have four switches in our minds. Turn on switch
number one and we gather information. Switch number two snaps on our
retentive powers. We retain and recall the facts that come in through the
first switch.
Number three clicks on our judgment. When it’s on all the way, we think
logically.
And number four is the switch for imagination. With most people, this is the
one that collects the must rust. When we were children, we used the
imagination switch all the time fighting imaginary bandits and flying make
believe airplanes. This is pure imagination.
But, as we grow older, we’re seldom encouraged to use the imaginative
power we spent our childhood cultivating. Instead, we’re taught to conform,
to take no chances, to play it safe, to follow the crowd. So, switch number
four soon gets rusty and we find it difficult to turn it back on when we get
older.
The other thing is, as we grew up, people had a way of making us feel
uncomfortable when they saw us using imagination. When we came up
with new ideas they were often greeted with smears or sarcastic laughter or
comments such as that’s a crazy idea. It won’t work. It’s never been done
before, or we always do it this way and so on.
These are idea killers. And, I’m sure you’ve heard them and many, many
more. They stifle creativity. Sometimes, too often really, we use them on
others. But even worse, we use them on ourselves. We actually kill our own
ideas before they’re given a chance to prove themselves one way or the
other.
Now, in order to combat this type of negative behavior, here are a few
thoughts you might like to remember.
One: Ideas can come from anyone, anywhere, at anytime. Ideas, like babies,
don’t pick their parents. So, be a sponge for ideas.
Two: Ideas, particularly in their early stages of development, demand care
and attention. They can be crushed all too easily.
And three, ideas need encouragement or rather people need to be
encouraged to think up ideas and communicate them to us. Try never to be
guilty of uttering idea killers. You can never tell when or where you’ll find
a good idea.
So, make it a point to create a receptive atmosphere around you. Let other
people know you’re interested in them and in what they have on their
minds.
Treat your ideas and the ideas of others with extreme care. Let people and
their ideas grow in your presence. When you do, you’re using your four
brain powers the way they were meant to be used. You’re thinking
creatively.
Use your wonderful mind to its fullest. It won’t wear out. Our brains thrive
on exercise. It might not be a bad idea to try out all four of your creative
switches today. I mean the absorption, retention, judgment, and imagination
powers we’ve been talking about.
This evening, for example, you might pick a subject that’s important to you.
Read about it, or talk with someone who’s well informed about it. Absorb
all you can. Recall from your memory all the information it contains on this
subject. Put these facts down on paper. Next, judge which of these facts are
useful to you. Then imagine, think of new ways to apply these in your daily
life.
Absorb, recall, judge, and imagine. When you consciously use this formula
for a while, it quickly becomes a habit. And, it’s a habit you’ll be pleased to
have.
Back to top
The Power In Asking Questions
Creative people are invariably intelligent people and they’re curious about
themselves, those around them, and the world in which they live. This is the
kind of curiosity that’s been called one of the permanent and certain
characteristics of a vigorous intellect.
Questions are the creative acts of the intelligent. And the questions that
work hardest for us and bring us the greatest amount of useful information
are the open-ended questions. Now these questions that can’t be answered
with a simple yes or no, they’re asked by using the six W’s, H, and I
technique; who, what, when, where, why, which, how, and if.
Rudyard Kipling put it this way:
“I had six honest serving men. They taught me all I knew. Their names
were where and what and when and why and how and who.” All we’re
doing is adding two more, which and if.
Now, this isn’t entirely new to us. We employ the six W’s, H, and I all the
time when we were children. Have you ever tried to count the number of
times each day a four or five year old uses the word why?
You see, each question a child asks is an attempt to add to his limited
knowledge. When adults lose patience with this constant barrage of
questions, the child either finds some other way of getting the information
or just forgets the whole thing, thereby neglecting a valuable tool he’ll want
later in life, the open ended question.
Now, as adults, we know that inside the mind of each person we meet there
is some knowledge that could benefit us if only we could learn what it is.
The open-ended question technique really opens people up.
By asking open-ended questions, we get people to lose the barriers that
normally keep this information out of our grasp. Human beings like to talk
about things that interest them. Open-ended questions let people know we
want to hear their ideas, opinions and thoughts.
Each of us has two ears and one mouth and it seems to be a good idea to do
twice as much listening as talking. An old Texas friend of mine used to say
“you ain’t learning nothing while you’re talking.”
But the object of asking open-ended questions isn’t merely to get other
people to talk. We can spend days standing around gabbing with people
who have very little to say that would benefit us. Instead, the object of our
who, what, when, where, why, which, how, and if questions is to gather,
absorb, and utilize that information which will be useful to us, move us
ahead in the fields of our own interests and endeavors.
But in so doing, we’re also employing the best technique known for making
friends, for success in human relations, and for selling our own ideas. Oddly
enough, the more we listen, the better conversationalists we seem to the
person doing the talking.
One of this country’s top newsmen set an example of this kind of
purposeful questioning. He knew how to ask open-ended questions so
provocatively that he could almost always get world leaders to give him
exclusive interviews. His questions earned him the highest position in his
field; that of chief executive for one of the great news services.
And, the open-ended question is equally useful for the businessman.
Suppose, for instance, you just met a Mr. Smith who’s an official of the
company operating in an area different from your own. Instead of talking
about the weather, you might ask him, “Mr. Smith how did you get into
your line of work?” Here’s a man who obviously has some degree of
success in business. So, you stand an excellent chance of learning
something that’ll be useful to you.
One of the best salesmen I know uses open-ended questions to a great
advantage when he’s talking to a prospect. Instead of saying we make the
best thingamabob in the world, he asks Mr. Prospect, when you buy a
thingamabobs, what features are most important for you.
Here’s an effective method for taking people off the offensive, by getting
them to talk to your advantage. This technique works well for anyone
who’ll give some thought to what he’s going to say rather than just blurting
out the first thing that pops into his mind. So, ask skillfully probing openended questions and ask them in a sincere, courteous manner.
Anyone who uses these six W’s, H, and I technique wisely, courteously, and
with those people who can contribute something to his understanding, will
quickly find this to be one of his most useful creative techniques.
The best way I know to practice asking open-ended questions is to try out a
few on myself. If this sounds like a good idea, you might want to try it too.
Ask yourself who has a greater knowledge of my job than I? What can I do
to learn some of the things he knows that I don’t? Why must my job be
done this way? And, if there is a better way to do my job, what would it be?
The housewife and the student can make up a similar set of questions that
would be just as stimulating in their own fields. Take time to ponder these
questions. They’re answers, the facts, and information you’ll gain can make
your life more interesting and rewarding. And, whenever you talk with
others, use lots of open-ended questions. They’re your most valuable
creative tools.
Back to top
New Ways to Think
Up to this point we’ve been preparing ourselves to think more creatively,
first by recognizing how important our ability to think creatively really is.
Second by looking at the characteristics creative people have in common
and examining ourselves in the light of these. Third, by understanding more
about the functions of the marvelous mind by which we’re all equipped, and
fourth by studying the art of gathering information, asking questions, and
listening.
Now we’re ready to examine the best techniques for using our creative
faculties more effectively to solve problems, make decisions, achieve goals,
and better fulfill our ultimate responsibility as human beings, to think.
Have you ever considered that you can think in various ways? Let’s look at
some ways to think. First, think association. An example of thinking
association is that the best way to remember names is to associate them
with familiar objects and words.
Two more examples of the thinking association are the keyword of the
association lists techniques. The keyword technique is used by people who
want to remember a series of ideas. They join the initial letters of the idea
words together to form a simple keyword. By remembering the keyword
they can recall the whole series of ideas.
An association list is used by memory experts to recall prodigious lists of
articles by associating each one with another article in a previously
memorized list. The creative person is forever associating ideas and
continually searching for associative relationships.
Next, think combination. Almost everything in nature is a combination of
elements. You’re quite a combination yourself. Scientists calculate that if
the energy in the hydrogen atoms of your body could be utilized, you could
supply all the electrical needs for the entire country for nearly a week. A
DuPont Scientist says that the atoms of your body contain a potential
energy of more than 11 million kilowatt hours per pound. Each of us then,
by this estimate, is worth about 85 billion dollars, give or take a few
million.
A simple pencil is a combination of wood, carbon, rubber, paint, metal.
Consider the combination of things that make up ham and eggs, pie
alamode, radio, TV, record player combinations and orbiting satellites
combined with microwave telephone relay stations. Somebody dreamed up
the idea of combining comedy and music and musical comedy was born.
You can come up with some really great ideas by finding new combinations
yourself. Everything you see, hear, touch, taste, and smell during the day
offers opportunity to consider new combinations. When you brush your
teeth, you might think of a toothbrush that contains the toothpaste in the
handle. You might combine your mirror with a motto reminding you to start
the day right. It might read how can I increase my service today or today is
the only time I’ve got, I’ll use it well. So let’s think combination.
Next, think adaptation. Burlap fabric originally used for making gunnysacks
has been adapted for drapes, wall covering, and stylish dresses. Some
salesmen were thinking adaptation. Airplane seatbelts have been adapted
for use in automobiles to bring more safety to highway driving. The
phonograph record and motion picture, originally developed for
entertainment, are today adapted for instruction and education.
Rocket motors, which were developed to propel atomic missiles, have been
adapted to lift peaceful space vehicles into orbital and into planetary flight.
During the next year, you’re going to see the result of people thinking
adaptation and coming up with ideas worth thousands of dollars. Why
couldn’t one of these people be you? The only limit to what you can
achieve by adapting old products to new uses, old methods to new
applications is the limit of your own creativity.
Next, think substitution. When you think substitution, you ask yourself how
you might substitute a different material or thing for the one now used. For
example, plastic is used for a substitute for wood and metal. Aluminum is a
substitute for other metals. Stainless steel is often substituted for chrome.
The transistor often replaces the vacuum tube. Old weathered planking can
be used as a substitute for a conventional wall in a family room or study
with dramatic and interesting effect.
In short, don’t assume that, because a particular thing has always been used
in the past that you have to use it now. Perhaps there’s a substitute that will
work better or last longer or cost less or be lighter or more colorful and so
forth. Let’s think substitution.
Next, think magnification. Think big. Example, skyscrapers, the Pentagon,
king size soft drinks, giant economy size packages. What do you work with
that might be made larger? Or, think mini-fication. Think small. Examples
like the solar battery, the transistor, the compact car, tiny radios that fit into
your pocket, small portable TV sets and smaller size food products. How
about the bikini? That’s certainly thinking small.
And now, to keep your mind moving, think rearrangement. That is, turn
things around, backward, upside down, or inside out. An interesting
example of this is when someone came up with the idea of putting the mink
on the inside of a woman’s coat, all the warmth, luxury, and status of full
length mink in a casual coat. And it’s nothing more than a mink coat turned
inside out.
Another good example of this is the building with its skeletal framework
outside. The building is suspended inside. Insects have their skeletons
outside. We have ours inside. They both work fine.
What do you work with that can benefit from this kind of thinking? What
can you turn around, revolutionize? Rearrange things, change pace, alter
sequence, think of modifying, changing color, motion, timing, sound, odor,
taste, form and shape.
This type of thinking works for everyone. Salesmen use these creative
techniques to discover new application for products or services, new ways
of emphasizing customer benefits, new ideas to solve customer problems,
better ways to organize their time and effort.
Summing up, if you want to spur your mind into new action, think
combination, association, adaptation, substitution, magnification, minification, and rearrangement.
If, at first, you force, literally force, your mind into thinking all of these
seven ways, you’d probably be amazed with the ideas you developed. And
before long, you’ll find yourself thinking in each of these ways as a matter
of course.
This kind of thinking increases the scope of your mind power. It enables
you to achieve full use of your brain. Your mind has an infinite variety of
things it can do and an infinite capacity for work. Let it work for you. Take
nothing for granted. Everything can and will be changed, improved. The
only thing you can count on for certain is change. Don’t wait for it. Be in
the forefront. Help bring it about.
Back to top
Creative Problem Solving
What are the similarities in problem solving, decision-making, and goal
achievement?
Naturally, they are alike in many ways. A decision that must be made is
little more than a problem awaiting a solution. We might even call it a
simple problem. When we’re faced with a decision, we rarely have to
choose between more than three alternatives. Whereas, in solving a
problem, we sometimes face what seems to be an endless list of
possibilities.
And, what about goal achievement? Isn’t a goal a point we wish to reach?
The problem is to move from where we are now to where we want to be.
So, you see, problem solving, decision-making, and goal achievement are
all closely related functions of creative thinking. It’s important that we keep
this in mind.
The first step in solving any problem is to define it. A problem well stated
is a problem half-solved. Define the problem clearly. We should always be
sure we understand the problem before we go to work on its solution.
Now write down everything you know about the problem. This information
might come from your own experience or from books that contain
background and statistical data or from friends and business associates who
know something about the area in which the problem lies.
Third, who to see. List the names of people and organizations that are
recognized authorities on the problem. This is your opportunity to go all out
for facts.
After determining who can help you, contact them, talk with them, pick
their brains for all the information they possess that can help you solve the
problem. After doing this write down the additional facts and information
you have now obtained. Be sure to make a note of each thing that is
germane to the problem. Don’t risk forgetting anything that could help you
find the best solution.
The fifth step in solving a problem creatively is called individual ideation.
This is personal brainstorming, thinking with the brakes of judgment off.
Don’t try to decide whether an idea is good or bad. Just write it down the
moment it comes to you. You can pick and choose and rate these ideas later.
Right now, all you’re after is a lot of ideas.
Now here are the four rules for brainstorming.
One: No negative thinking.
Two: The wilder the ideas, the better.
Three: A large number of ideas is essential.
And Four: Combination and improvement of ideas is what you’re after.
One idea often leads to a better idea. Don’t worry if some of your ideas
seem far fetched or impractical. You’re looking for all the ideas you can
possibly find. Don’t reject any. Write them all down.
Then when you have all your ideas written down, rate them for
effectiveness and facility. The effectiveness scale ranges from very effective
to probably effective to doubtful. And, the facility scale ranges from easy to
not so easy to difficult. This rating of ideas will clearly indicate the likely
success of any possible solution. Of course, it’s best to consider first the
idea or ideas that are rated both very effective and easy.
The next step in your creative process for solving problems is the group
brainstorm. This is your opportunity to put the minds of others to work on
the problem. Handle this session the same way you did your individual
ideation, no negative thinking and no criticism at this stage. The wilder the
ideas, the better. Get as many ideas as possible and try for idea combination
and improvement.
Write down all the ideas the group comes up with. Then, after all the
possible solutions are in, screen them as you did earlier for their predictable
effectiveness and ease of implementation. Be careful, though, not to pass
judgment on any idea while the brainstorm is in progress. It’s sure death to
brainstorming. The rating always comes last. We’ll go into this more
thoroughly later.
Of course, you may not want group brainstorming on every problem. If you
don’t, just skip this step and go on to the next one.
Seventh, list only ideas that have received the highest ratings. Then,
estimate the time and cost involved in implementing each of these ideas.
When you’ve found the ones that check out best for effectiveness, facility,
time, and cost put them on a page named “Action Plan”. This is your
schedule for putting the best ideas to work.
When you review an idea in your action plan, decide who might do it, when
it might be done, where it will start, and how to do it. These are important
considerations. Be certain to give yourself a deadline for putting your plan
into action. We work hardest and most efficiently when we know there’s a
definite time element involved. So, make a note of the date when you must
put your solution to work.
It’s good to remember that timing is often critical when a new idea is
introduced. So, carefully calculate the deadline date in the light of the
general situation. You also might like to write down a second date, the one
by which you intend to have the action completed, the problem solved.
Remember what we wrote earlier about problem solving, decision-making,
and goal achievement? They have a great deal in common. They can all be
attacked in much the same way. And, you’ll find your worksheet a real
help. Step by step it can take you through to the successful solution of any
problem.
You know, for any problem, no matter how big or complex it may be, there
is a solution. All you have to do is find it. And, you can find it by
organizing your approach, by attacking the problem emphatically with
determination, by working long and hard, by applying your full brain power
and by using wisely all the help you can get. You CAN solve it!
Back to top
The Brainstorm
I’ve talked about two kinds of brainstorming, individual ideation, a person
thinking up solutions on his own, and, group brainstorming, a number of
people working together on a problem. Now, I’d like to explore each of
these techniques and go into them in greater depth.
But first, consider for just a moment the middle ground between these two.
This is a situation in which two people work together in creative
collaboration and idea improvement. There are many good examples of
this, ranging from Madam Curie and her husband to Rogers and
Hammerstein. This team of two technique often works on the sparkplug and
brake system. One half of the team may be the thinker upper and the other
half the toner downer, the judge.
So, that’s the middle ground, the team of two technique. It’s productive.
And I recommend you use it whenever you can. You might ask your wife or
husband, business associate or a good friend to be the other half of the
team.
This kind of collaboration is a good way to prove the old saying that two
heads are better than one. In this middle ground example, the team of two
technique, I mentioned that one collaborator frequently acted as the thinker
upper, the spark plug, the other as the toner downer, the brake.
This is not brainstorming. In brainstorming, there are only thinker uppers,
only sparkplugs. There are no toner downers, no brakes, no critics, no
judges until all the ideas are in. Now let’s get back to the solo method of
brainstorming, the one we’ll call individual ideation.
As I said previously, your first step toward the solution of any problem is to
define it clearly. The definition should be as succinct and simply put as you
can possibly make it. I suggest that you think about your problem until it’s
nature and limits are so clear in your mind that you can easily write down
the complete problem in one simple statement. A good working definition
gives you a clear target.
After your problem is well defined, you can then start your own personal
solitary brainstorm, your individual ideation. Come up with and write down
as many ideas, as many possible solutions, as you can think of. This may
not be easy at first, very few things are the first time you try them. But, it
can be done. It takes enthusiasm, concentration, and perseverance to find
the best ideas to solve a problem.
When you start getting some ideas down on that sheet of paper you’ll find
these ideas will enable you to come up with more. They, in turn, will
generate still more ideas. This is the kind of chain reaction that really gets
things going creatively.
Remember, you’re striving now only for a quantity of ideas. Don’t worry
about quality, that’ll come later. In fact, the development of quality is
inevitable. Your best ideas seldom come first. So, don’t hold back. Go all
out and keep going just as a navigator increases his chances of hitting his
target with every additional bearing he takes. So do a large number of ideas
increase the odds in favor of your hitting upon the best solution to a
problem.
Strive for variety in your ideas. When you’ve put down as many as you can
think of, try asking yourself, all right, what’s next? The French Novelist
Stendhal stated the case for quantity over a century ago when he said, “I
require three or four cubic feet of new ideas a day as a steamboat requires
coal.” So, try anything and everything and be sure to write down every idea
you get.
One of this country’s most imaginative inventors, Charles Kettering,
worked for six years developing his new diesel engine. He tried first one
approach and then another until, as he said, the engine finally told us
exactly what it wanted.
In the same way, your problems may very likely pick their own best
solutions if you’ll just give them enough choices and a large enough
quantity and variety of ideas. Well, that’s individual ideation, your own
private brainstorm.
Let’s move now to group brainstorming. This is a technique in which a
number of people hold a meeting with a single purpose in mind, to think up
together as many ideas as possible in order to solve one well-defined
problem.
Between five and ten participants seems to be the best size for such a
gathering. It’s a good idea to let each member of the brainstorm know, in
advance of the session, the problem to be worked on. Be sure they have as
clear a written statement of the problem as you can possibly provide.
Knowing the problem, each of them can spend from a few minutes to a few
days in personal research and individual ideation before the meeting.
When the brainstorm group gathers, make sure each member has a pad and
pencil with which to capture ideas he might otherwise lose before he gets a
chance to present them to the group. Have someone present to take notes to
record every idea that’s produced. Later, these notes should be transcribed
and passed along to the brainstormers for further improvement and
combination of the ideas. Always have a leader, but keep the brainstorm as
informal as possible. Encourage everyone to speak up.
Before starting, it’s helpful to run briefly through the four rules for
brainstorming.
1) No negative thinking allowed. The wilder the ideas the better.
2) Suspend judgment, the ideas will be judged afterward.
3) You want the largest possible quantity of ideas.
4) Combination and improvement of ideas is what you’re after.
Then, let the storming begin. Attack the problem from all sides and without
letup. You’ll find that there’s a chain reaction that takes place when the
ideas start flowing, like a string of firecrackers going off one right after the
other. It isn’t unusual for ten people to come up with a hundred ideas in half
an hour. So, expect results.
Studies of the brainstorm technique show that a given number of people
working together on a single problem will be more than 50 percent more
effective -- coming up with at least half again more ideas than the same
number of people working individually.
Along with the chain reaction, one idea leading to another, there’s a friendly
rivalry and personal interaction that increases individual performance in a
brainstorming session.
Well, there they are two excellent methods for finding the best solution to a
problem: individual ideation and group brainstorming. Both are based on
the amazingly simple procedure of thinking things up, writing them down,
improving them, and judging them only after all the ideas are in.
The secret of this system’s effectiveness lies in the number of ideas it
generates. Thomas Edison said, “I’ll try anything, I’ll even try Limburger
cheese.” So, try anything, try everything, and write it all down. That’s
brainstorming and it gets results.
Back to top
Ready for Action
We’ve now covered steps one through six. We’ve defined the problem.
We’ve searched out and rounded up the facts of the problem. We’ve learned
how to individually ideate. And, we talked about using the technique of
differed judgment in both individual ideation and group brainstorming.
Now, after coming up with ideas on how to solve the problem, we need to
evaluate these ideas and take action on them. Too often we tend to
underemphasize these two final steps, evaluation and action. Yet, they’re
vital steps in creativity.
Ideas need to be rated carefully before they can be implemented. There are
many scales we can use. Among the most useful are effectiveness and
facility. First, how effective a solution to a problem the idea is likely to be
and second, how easy or how difficult it might be to put the idea into action.
So, after looking over all your ideas, first rate them according to how
effective you can reasonably expect them to be: very effective, probably
effective, or doubtful. Then, rate them for facility or ease of
implementation: easy, not so easy, or difficult.
Effectiveness and facility make a good two-way screen for the brainstorm
ideas. Remember, you’re now judging the ideas. This is a time for cold hard
thinking. Suppose you’re a manufacturer, and suppose your sales and
marketing team brainstorm come up with some ideas to increase sales. Let’s
say one of the ideas is to revamp completely one of the products that your
company is offering to the public.
Let’s rate this idea. First, in terms of effectiveness, you know the present
product meets a need and is acceptable to the buying public. What about an
entirely changed product? Without a lot of marketing tests and then a period
of actually manufacturing for sale, it would be hard to say just how
effective this would be in increasing sales. Better rate it doubtful.
And how does this idea of completely revamping one of the products check
out on the facility screen: easy, not so easy, or difficult? It would be
difficult. Wouldn’t it? It would require new engineering, new tools, new
manufacturing plans, new packaging and new marketing methods.
Suppose, however, that one of the salesmen’s ideas is to feature the
company’s product on a network television program. This would be
probably effective, it would be not so easy, but it could be done. Now,
suppose another idea is to set up a new motivational or a sales incentive
program, a program direct to those people who are at the front of the
problem, the salesmen.
If it were a well-designed or implemented motivational or incentive
program, it would stand a good chance of being very effective. It would be
easy to do. It should increase the company’s sales.
There are many other evaluation yardsticks you might use. Two more are
time and money. Try rating your ideas against these measurements. For
example, in the case of the manufacturer who wants to increase his sales,
certainly, changing the product would take a great deal of time and money.
And to advertise it on a popular network television program would cost a
great deal of money.
On the other hand, to introduce a new motivational or sales incentive
program might be neither too costly nor too time consuming. So, when you
evaluate your ideas, measure them against these four rating yardsticks,
effectiveness, facility, time and cost.
Every idea you have may not be worth creative action. And, that’s why you
must skillfully evaluate each of them. But, once you’ve carefully judged
your ideas it’s time to take action. Now, let’s look at ways to act on your
ideas.
This action step seems to be one of the most difficult. It requires hard work
and most of us don’t like hard work. But, rewards can’t come without
action.
Here’s an example. Several years ago, one of the telephone companies had
a major problem. It was how to prevent ice from forming on
communication wires and breaking them. For months then engineers
worked hard on the problem. Finally, they decided to brainstorm it.
During the brainstorm, one idea was to fly helicopters at a low altitude over
the wires; the down draft from the rotors would blow away the ice. The idea
was tried, it was put into action, and it worked. The result, no more ice on
wires and thousands of dollars saved.
Now, let’s create an Action Plan. First, you select or list the ideas or idea
you plan to act upon. Second, you decide who might take the action, for
example, your boss, your general manager, sales manager, advertising
manager or yourself.
Third, you determine when is the best time to take action. Timing is a
critical factor in the introduction of a new idea. Wrong timing might short
circuit an idea and cause its failure. So, watch the timing of your idea’s
introduction. We can all think of past great ideas that flopped because of
bad timing.
Fourth, decide where the action might be taken, for example, in your office,
in a factory, at the next board of directors meeting. The staging is important.
So, pay attention to exactly where the idea is introduced.
Fifth, you need to determine how the idea might be implemented. For
example, if it’s a new way to increase sales, perhaps direct mail might be
used or advertising in newspapers or perhaps radio and TV might be the
way to get the idea across.
Sixth and finally, always give yourself two deadlines. First, a date on which
you want to start putting your idea into action and second a date by which
you want to complete the action, have the problem solved. Deadlines spur
the mind to creative action.
Too often most of us fail to do anything with our ideas. One reason is that
we fear failure. Here I think it’s well to remember that mistakes are often
stepping stones to success. Success never crowns those afraid to try. The
point is that, to be productive, ideas must be implemented. Weigh carefully
the idea you plan to put into action. Plan how you’ll take the action. Then,
take action.
Back to top
The Creative Person
We’ve found that creative people, though they may be dissimilar in many
respects, have certain attitudes and employ certain techniques to their own
benefit and to the benefit of us all.
I’d like now to use these techniques and attitudes as the basis for a
descriptive sketch of a creative person. As we go through this sketch, I’d
like you to think about this person. Where and when have you seen him or
her? Is this a person you know at work or in your neighborhood or right at
home?
It will be helpful to read this description frequently and be reminded of
these techniques and attitudes, which, if practiced regularly, will result in
your living an even more creative rewarding life. Another good idea is
project the image of the creative person on your own actions and then judge
for yourself what areas could stand some improvement.
First of all, the creative person realizes that his mind is an inexhaustible
storehouse. It can provide anything he earnestly wants in life. But, in order
to draw from this storehouse, he must constantly augment its stock of
information, thoughts and wisdom. His mind gives him ideas and ideas
solve problems.
The person we’re talking about has a carefully thought out and clearly
defined set of goals toward which he’s working. By knowing where he’s
going and determining to get there, he gives meaning and purpose to his
daily work, to everything he does. He never wastes time just drifting. He’s
always in control of his life.
The creative person knows his brain thrives on exercise. So, he uses a part
of each day for thinking imaginatively about three things, himself, his work,
and his fellow man. By asking himself questions involving these three
areas, he’s prospecting in the riches goldmine ever known. And the answers
to his questions are often ideas that he can put into immediate action.
He reaches out for ideas. He respects the minds of others, gives credit to
their mental abilities. Everyone has ideas, they’re free, and many of them
are excellent.
By first listening to ideas and then thinking them through before judging
them, the creative person avoids prejudice and closed mindedness. This is
the way he maintains a creative climate around himself.
You know, ideas are like slippery fish. They seem to have a peculiar knack
of getting away from us. Because of this, the creative person always has a
pad and pencil handy. When he gets an idea, he writes it down. He knows
that many people have found their whole lives changed by a single great
thought. By capturing ideas immediately, he doesn’t risk forgetting them.
And these captured ideas are deposited in idea banks, eight and a half by
eleven inch envelopes which are labeled with topics of interest. A friend of
mine, a very successful writer, writes his books this way. He labels each
envelope with a name of a chapter. Then, whenever he gets an idea or finds
new material, he sees that it gets into the proper envelope. Before long his
book has practically written itself.
Having a sincere interest in people, our creative person listens carefully
when someone else is talking. He’s intensely observant; absorbing
everything he sees and hears. He behaves as if everyone he meets wears a
sign that reads, “I am the most important person on earth.” Thus, he makes
it a point always to talk with other people’s interest in mind. And then, it
pays off in a flood of new ideas and information that would otherwise be
lost to him forever.
Widening his circle of friends and broadening his base of knowledge are
two more very effective techniques of the creative person. If he is staying at
a hotel where there is a convention not allied to his own work, he’ll drop in
on it, make new friends, and listen for ideas that might help him. He’s
always looking for better ways to do his work and live his life.
The creative person anticipates achievement. He expects to win. And the
above average production intended for this type of attitude affects those
around him in a positive way. He’s a prospector for all who know him.
You know, problems are challenges to creative minds. Without problems,
there’d be little reason to think at all. Welcoming them as normal and
predictable parts of living singles him out as an above average person. He
knows it’s a waste of time merely to worry about problems. So, he wisely
invests the same time and energy in solving problems.
He has an organized approach to problem solving. He can even avoid
problems by anticipating potentially troublesome areas and doing
something about them before they turn sour on him. The research and
development departments in many leading companies are constantly
involved in exactly this sort of advanced planning.
The creative person knows the value of giving himself and his ideas away.
He’s a go-giver as well as a go-getter. The hand that gives always gathers.
And doing things for other people is a vital part of his way of life.
When the creative person gets an idea he puts it through a series of steps
designed to improve it. He thinks in new directions. He builds big ideas and
little ones, new ideas and old ones, associating ideas, combining them,
adapting, substituting, magnifying, minifying, rearranging and reversing
ideas.
He steers clear of mind weakeners, noise, fatigue, needless worry,
unbalanced diets, overindulgence in food or drink, and people with negative
attitudes. He asks polite, probing questions that bolster the ego and expand
the mind. Questions are the creative acts of the intelligent and he uses them
often and to everyone’s advantage.
And, the creative person uses his spare time wisely. He knows that many of
the great ideas, books, and inventions were conceived during the creator’s
spare time. We all have the same number of minutes in a day. And, the
creative person values each one of them.
Do you recognize the person in this message? Well, it’s someone you ought
to know. As you use these suggestions and creativity aids you’ve learned to
further increase your personal potential, I believe you’ll soon discover this
person’s identity and you’ll be pleased with your own enhanced ability.
Back to top
The Challenge of Creativity
Now, with your interest in mind, I’d like to get down to a few personal
thoughts on creative thinking. Creative thinkers have been around longer
than teachers of creative thinking or even those who would define it. In fact,
by definition, creative thinking seems to divide itself into two areas: hard
work and inspiration.
You’ve had the experience of working long and hard on a problem without
any real results. And then, all of the sudden the solution hits you. It’s like
someone turning on a bright light. But this wonderful experience almost
never comes without our first preparing the way. And that’s where the hard
work comes in.
Those who give up in frustration simply fail to understand that this is the
way the mind operates. It’s the methodical striving that makes possible the
illuminating flash of insight. Everyone can be creative. But, it seems that
only a few know they can or realize the success and satisfaction that come
as a result of being more imaginative and more energetic in their thoughts
and action.
We have a tendency to go along, a tendency not to question something once
it’s been established as satisfactory. Let’s find an example. Here’s a down to
earth one. How do you scramble eggs at your house? Have you ever tried
mixing a dash or two of bitters in with your raw eggs, maybe a couple of
good squirts of Tabasco sauce? Or, first sautéing some chopped onions or
green peppers then pouring in the beaten eggs and just before they’re done
adding diced fresh tomatoes? This makes fixing scrambled eggs more
interesting and it makes eating them a great deal more satisfying.
Now, if this kind of thinking can change cooking from a laborious chore
into a creative rewarding art, think what it can do in countless other fields
of endeavor including your own.
Just as I challenge the way you scramble eggs, challenge, at least in the
back of your mind, everything that you’re doing as you used to do it, or as
your mother or father or great-great grandfather used to do it. Most people
today agree that the once fervently spoken line “what was good enough for
my father is good enough for me,” was a fatuous absurd remark.
What was good enough for dad is not good enough for us today. And,
what’s good enough for us won’t be good enough for our youngsters. That’s
the way this old world improves itself and that’s the way it should be.
A leading businessman has said if you’re doing anything this year the same
way you did it last year, you’re in serious trouble. The trouble might not
come from the way you’re doing things, but it very likely will come unless
you maintain a constant awareness of the necessity, the inevitability of
change.
In this book, I’ve given you the creative thinking methods developed by the
best minds in this field. Creative thinking is a learnable skill and a practical
art. But creative thinking in its very nature resists perfect definition and
rigid rules of conduct, as does music or painting or any other art.
Becoming accomplished at any art takes practice and more practice, years
of it. You can start practicing it right now. You can make it one of your most
valuable assets now and from here on out. And, if you’ll continue to
practice it every day of your life, you’ll become a master at it and win a
master’s reward.
Maybe it doesn’t make any difference if you still lace your shoes the way
you’ve always laced them. But, it does make a difference if you don’t
challenge the way you lace them or why you lace them. Just such a
challenge changed the shoe industry and today a good many of men’s shoes
are made with no laces at all.
So, form the habit of really thinking about, of questioning everything you
do, everything you see. Some people can walk by an empty lot for years
without giving it a second thought, without really seeing it at all. But, one
man will see it not as a vacant lot but as a beautifully landscaped property
sporting a handsome new office building. He’ll do something worthwhile
for his community and probably make himself a fine profit in real estate.
When you ask yourself why the steering wheel on your car is round, it’s not
necessarily because you want to invent a square one. It’s because you’re
practicing your art, the art of creative thinking. You’re sharpening your
mind and encouraging it to perform the highest function a human being is
capable of, deliberate creative thought.
Then when you apply your art to your work, to your home, and family, and
friends, your mind flashes out of its scabbard like a finely tempered steel
blade probing, seeking, penetrating through the old to the new that lies just
under the surface.
Creative thinking is an exciting pursuit. It’s exhilarating and it makes for a
wonderful conversation at the dinner table, while riding in a car, anytime.
In the evening, your creative awareness might result in you asking yourself
why am I sitting here like I mesmerized chicken watching people kill each
other on my television screen? Isn’t there something more interesting, more
rewarding I could be doing with a part of this time? Isn’t there a subject I’d
like to know more about? What about that book I’ve been meaning to read?
You know, one hour a night adds up quickly to a really enormous amount of
time. Time is one of the few things men can’t buy more of and it’s a good
idea to use all of it as wisely as we know how.
When you get an idea you think is good, hang it up on an imaginary hook
and walk all the way around it. Look at it from every angle, poke it, pull it,
twist it, stretch it in new directions, try to improve it. If it’s an idea you
can’t use, give it away and get another you can work with. Ideas are free yet
they’re the most valuable commodities known to man. And the great ideas
ennoble the minds that conceive them.
Make creative thinking a normal part of your life and attitude and you’ll
find your world being filled to the brim with a wonderful new interest. And,
one of these days, you’re going to get the idea that will make a really
substantial contribution, one that will revolutionize your life, for it will be
an idea that will make the world a better place because you happened to live
here for a while.
In the meantime, just looking for that idea can be a challenge, an
inspiration, and a lot of fun. Good hunting and good creative thinking.
This is Earl Nightingale and thank you.
Back to top
###
More Earl Nightingale
Download FREE audios of classic Earl Nightingale messages, including
As A Man Thinketh and Acres of Diamonds at www.DownloadEarl.com